# Mama Hungry

She's the bad ogre who steals your kids. She's the medieval Candyman. She's Baba
Yaga in a hut made out of candy, walking around on a hundred Oompa-Loompa legs.
She's a magical hag. She lives in the deep forest, all the deep forests. She's
hangry as fuck and Snickers won't be invented for like a thousand years.

She can change appearance to suit herself, but has two main forms. When happy,
she's a nine-foot-tall, gluttonous, slobbering, flabby matron with a
high-pitched voice. When angry, she's a twelve-foot-tall, near-skeletal monster
with an enormous belly and sagging folds of skin, howling and raging and
desperate to eat. No matter what, she smells like stew and cinnamon, and is
always scratching at the thousands of fleas that pester her.

Happy Mama Hungry does her best to not eat people, at least not people she
likes. She likes to keep a few children around because they are just so cute
though, and good children are so good at helping around the house and the
experiments and flea-baths and couldn't you just eat them up nom nom nom oops
she didn't mean to eat you, Hansel, but you were just too cute!

Things that make her happy:

- delicious food, cooking
- babies, children, grandparents
- cooking babies and children
- revenge (on her enemies or yours)
- new magic
- flea baths
- invocation of her name by angry parents, anywhere

Angry Mama Hungry is something to flee first and try to placate later. Even her
fleas get angry.

## Being Eaten By Mama Hungry

Happy Mama Hungry would never swallow anyone, not even the smallest, cutest
baby, whole and living. Unless it was a terrible accident, once in a lifetime
fluke. Most people eaten by her are killed humanely by the standards of the day
and prepared as elaborate dishes, often of an ironic nature. Those making up
meals for a Happy Mama Hungry simply get all et up.

The Angry form of Mama Hungry handles eating creatures differently. She may
swallow any number of human-sized or smaller creatures, whole, that she can lay
hands on. She can even do this to creatures her size, should she stand still for
a combat round to accomplish it.

Angry Mama Hungry's stomach is a horrible place, with jets of acid, muscular
throbbings, and duplicates of Mama Hungry's face hidden in the folds of her
tripe. She watches them in there and can communicate with them. Convincing Mama
Hungry to eat things useful for an escape, or to make her vomit, is a viable
plan.

No intelligent creature can die within Mama Hungry's stomach until its parents
have forgotten them. They can be burnt, dissolved, starved, suffocated, but they
keep living.

Cutting open Mama Hungry's stomach from the inside will always reveal someplace
worse. Whatever that place should be, travelling though it will inexorably end
with the travellers ending up back in Mama's stomach.

Cutting open Mama Hungry's stomach from the outside will cause intelligent
creatures within to spill out. This does no damage to Mama Hungry.

### Mama Hungry as a Patron

#### Patron Taint

Roll 1d8.

1: Each time rolled, you are more visibly infested with flea-like parasites. -1
Personality first, then -1 Stamina, then both. A bath in pine tar or similar
substance removes these penalties for 3d8 hours.

2: Animals and children are instinctively disturbed by you. Rolled again,
children instinctively flee you in terror. Rolled a third time, they flee, plot,
and attack to kill.

3: You nibble at your own fingertips painfully: -1 temporary Agility.

4: You require twice as much food as you used to. This stacks.

5: Your stomach distends. This becomes more elaborate as rerolled, Agility being
reduced by 1 each time.

6: You are given to cravings, which must be filled in order to avoid flying into
rages. DC 10 Will save when forced to deny a craving or go berserk for it. Roll
1d6 for the type of food that triggers a craving: 1: children, 2: fish, 3:
sweets, 4: meat, 5: vegetables, 6: other.

7: Any food you come into contact with and do not immediately eat, goes bad.
Roll again, +5' radius.

8: (corruption)

#### Spells

##### Invoke Mama Hungry

Spellburn

Roll 1d4 any time you spellburn.

1: GO BERSERK until you eat at least a pound of food. You are fantastically
angry, too angry to even talk coherently until then. FREAK OUT.

2-4: Your skin burns and itches. From the inside.
