Elzemon  the  Quasit:  Init  +4;  Atk  claw  +3  melee  (1d6+2);  AC 17; HD 5d8; hp 23; MV 35’ (fly); Act 2d20; SP Invisible at will, Infernal Band of Deception (see below); SV Fort +2, Ref +6, Will +5 (immune to Will effects unless true name is known); AL C.

Infernal  Band  of  Deception:  This  magical  ring  has  had  many  bearers,  most  notably  Zengith  the  Claw.  Elzemon  won the ring in a bet that he could fool a cleric of Justicia to arrange some murders of Justicia’s monks. The Infernal Band grants a cantrip corresponding to a spell check of 20, three  times  a  day  for  chaotic  PCs,  once  a  day  for  neutral  PCs, with spell failure and automatic minor corruption for lawful PCs. It also grants phantasm corresponding to a spell check of 20, once per day for demon or demon-bound PCs. One must know the Demonic language to mentally activate this last power.

Yarafad’s  Box  is  a  cylindrical  container,  3’  in  both  height  and  diameter,  designed  to  hold  a  human-sized  creature  (see area 4a). Made of some unidentifiable, lightweight ma-terial both metallic and slightly elastic, its outside is caged with a fine network of pipes radiating like spokes from a central reservoir. When this reservoir is filled with blood from a living lawful being, the pipes create a “holy prison” that confines chaotic creatures, especially those that tele-port or are incorporeal. The Box must be fed daily with 5 hp of lawful blood, otherwise its ability to block teleportation or incorporeal beings fails. Gurgling, sputtering noises oc-cur when feeding is necessary. Currently the Box contains a shadow (see DCC RPG rulebook, page 425). The PCs have to  transport  it  for  5  days,  providing  25  hp  of  living  law-ful  blood,  or  else  the  shadow  escapes.  In  this  adventure,  the  shadow  is  meant  to  stay  imprisoned.  Unless  the  PCs  are  both  extremely  well-equipped  and  lucky,  the  shadow  would annihilate them.

PlayEr IntroductIonThe  adventure  begins  with  the  PCs  meeting  the  wizard  Rhalabhast  of  Many  Eyes.  The  judge  may  determine  how  the  meeting  occurs,  but  possible  hooks  are  wizards  and  elves  seeking  new  spells,  or  the  party  needing  sagely  ad-vice  or  information  from  his  network  of  magical  spies.  Rhalabhast is happy to help the PCs, but he requires service from them first.The wizard stares at you, his fingers creating a temple over his nose as his thumbs cradle his bearded chin. After an uncomfort-ably long moment of silence, he says, “A rival of mine, Nekros the Grotesque, has something that I desire, and I want you to get it. Succeed, and I will bestow what you seek. You must go to the wa-terfall at Boulder Cliff. When the dead look to the sky, a way into the cliff will appear. Enter, and inside Nekros’ sanctum you’ll find a cylindrical box. Bring me this box unopened, and I’ll hold up my part of the bargain. There is ... a complication. You’ll need to provide the box a significant amount of living lawful blood to keep its contents inside. Under no circumstance should you let the box’s prisoner escape. That would be a fatal error.”
Page 3Boulder Cliff (area 1) is a three-day journey from their en-counter with Rhalabhast. If they ask him what is inside the Box,  he  refuses  to  tell  them,  “for  their  own  protection.”  If  they ask about encountering Nekros, he assures them that Nekros is away from his Sanctum and will not return for weeks. If asked about “When the dead look to the sky,” he says  that  it  is  the  information  he  was  given,  but  does  not  know what it means. The mere possession of the Box is de-sirable for any wizard, but Rhalabhast’s true motivation is to obtain the shadow imprisoned within, study it, and pos-sibly  convert  it  to  a  familiar.  Upon  receiving  the  Box  and  shadow, Rhalabhast stays true to his word and rewards the PCs with information, one or two spells, or whatever was a big enough “carrot” to motivate the party. If the party has let the shadow escape, Rhalabhast will be very, very angry.

Area  1  –  The  Bear  and  the  Waterfall:  The gargantuan stones of Boulder Cliff loom ahead, the shadows of cracks and cre-vasses seeming to form jagged faces. A waterfall plummets from above, feeding a dark pool from which a river continues its course. At the cliff’s base, the sickly-sweet smell of death wafts from a bear’s decaying corpse and the shredded remains of six failed hunters. The rotted weapons and armor suggest the melee is de-cades old, yet the bodies are somehow suspended in their decay.Following Rhalabhast’s hint, the PCs must manipulate all bodies  (including  the  bear!)  so  that  they  look  at  the  sky.  This causes a boulder in the cliff’s base away from the river to rotate and reveal a passage (DC 15 Int check to find if the bodies are not manipulated). The corpses are cursed with a temporal rot; any appendage that touches them automati-cally rots (1 hp damage per round of contact), but returns to normal one hour later. Note that characters seeking the proverbial  “passage  behind  the  waterfall”  end  up  disap-pointed and wet.

Area  2  –  Downward  Spiral:  The secret passage opens into an immense chamber whose opposite side is beyond your vision. You stand on a stony platform from which roughly hewn stairs descend spiraling along the chamber’s curved wall. The stairs can comfortably fit three abreast, but there is no railing to prevent falling off the edge into the abyssal darkness. Clever  PCs  that  choose  to  look  up  rather  than  down  may  spot a ledge 30’ above them (DC 15 Int check to spot, DC 10 Str or Agi check to climb). Five tirgefrabs guard the stairway from here. It is a two-day journey descending the stairs to area 3. The tirgefrabs attack the PCs twice with hit-and-run tactics during their descent (once each day). If one is killed or they inflict 10 or more combined points of Strength and Stamina damage, then they flee. They favor attacking PCs who are not holding torches.Tirgefrabs   are   man-sized,   hairless,   toothless,   claw-less,   emaciated-looking  cats  with  bulbous  black  eyes.  Despite  their  weakened  appearance,  they  are  excellent  climbers,  stealthy, and fast. They rely on projectile vomiting to con-quer prey by draining Strength and Stamina. PCs reduced to 0 Strength are incapable of movement, while those re-duced to 0 Stamina faint and remain unconscious. On a critical  hit,  rather  than  using  Crit  Table  M,  rule  that  tirge-frab vomit enters the victim’s mouth, causing the retching PC to be prone and helpless for 1d8 rounds. A cleric with a 3 HD lay-on-hands check heals 1d3 vomit damage.  Tirgefrabs  (5):  Init  +4,  Atk  paw  +2  melee  (1d3)  or  vomit;  AC 16; HD 2d8; hp 9 each; MV 50’; Act 1d20; SP vomit +4 missile (1d3 Str + 1d3 Sta loss, 10’ range, Crit causes 1d8 rounds helplessness); SV Fort +2, Ref +4, Will +1; AL N.After  six  hours  of  descent  the  PCs  encounter  a  weakened  portion of the stairs (DC 15 Int check to spot). Reflex saves are necessary based on PCs’ positions: outer edge close to the  wall  (DC  5),  center  (DC  9),  inner  edge  (DC  14).  Those  that fail fall to their deaths as the stairs collapse under any significant weight. A 20’ long, 5’ wide path remains along the wall.Elzemon  invisibly  goads  the  PCs  to  annoyance,  trying  to  weaken them with sleep deprivation. When PCs camp on the stairway after the first day of descent, Elzemon uses his Infernal Band of Deception twice to keep the party on edge and interrupt their sleep. Judges may use the Harassment Table  below  or  come  up  with  their  own  clever  tortures.  Note that Elzemon is too great an artist to repeat a specific harassment.  Each  PC  must  make  a  Will  save  (see  below)  to retain the benefits of a good night’s rest (i.e. restoring 1 hp and/or 1 ability point (except for Luck), regaining lost spells, resetting deity disapproval, etc). 
Page 4Harassment Table (d6)1Sinister chuckling that crescendos into hysterical laughter. (DC 15)2Sounds of children screaming for help. (DC 20)3A sleeping PC awakens taking 1d3 damage from a freezing chill. (DC 20)4The  sound  of  a  giant  boulder  tumbling  down  the  stairs from above. (DC 20)5A deep voice repeatedly shouts, “Who invades my domain?” (DC 15)6A  high  cackling  voice  exclaims,  “I  see  you!”  The  voice describes the party members in detail. (DC 15)

Area 3 – Mystic Bridge: After days on the stairs, you descend onto the base of the cylindrical chamber. Self-illuminating with a dim pallid glow, the floor reveals itself to be a strange flat bridge leading from all sides to a tall guano mound in the center. The bridge spans a lake of sparkling golden liquid 10 feet below. Rip-ples on the surface betray motion underneath, and occasionally a creature’s back emerges, its skin a shiny black-spotted swirling ochre green reminiscent of blown glass. A wretched odor akin to rotten eggs rises from the lake. The  material  and  construction  of  the  bridge  are  mystical  in nature and unidentifiable. Wizards and elves recogniz-ing the bridge as one of Nollonapia’s Mystic Forms (DC 13 spell check to recognize) gain +3 to spell checks while on it. PCs must balance over a minimum of three narrow regions to reach the guano mound in the center (area 4). Judges are encouraged to make a PC handout from the map. Charac-ters who fail a DC 13 Agility check fall into the lake. Elze-mon invisibly tries to knock unguarded PCs from the nar-row parts when crossing. If he succeeds with a claw attack then the victim must make a DC 15 Reflex save or fall off the bridge. Note that characters stabilized via a rope, pole, linked arms, etc., are easier to hit (+2). Elzemon also severs ropes that support hanging PCs.The lake is somewhat acidic; consequently, for every third round of exposure, PCs lose 1 hp, and metallic armor and weapons (except those made of mithril) lose 1 point AC bo-nus  and  maximum  damage  is  reduced  by  1,  respectively.  Immune  to  the  lake’s  acidity,  three  colossal  leeches  (DCC  RPG rulebook, page 420) guard Nekros’ lair and attack any PC falling off the bridge.Colossal  Leeches  (3):  Init  -2;  Atk  bite  +4  melee  (1d6  plus  blood drain); AC 14; HD 2d8; hp 9 each; MV 10’ or swim 30’; Act 1d20; SP blood drain (automatic 1d4 dmg per round after bite); SV Fort +4, Ref -2, Will -4; AL N.

Area  4  –  Guano  Mound:Having crossed the mystic bridge, you stand in front of a hemispherical mound of guano roughly 50’ in diameter. Double doors, made of a hard glassy opaque material, lead inside.The doors are locked (DC 12 pick lock check to open). They may be bashed down with 30 points of bludgeoning dam-age,  but  PCs  take  1d6  damage  from  the  doors’  shards  each  attempt.  PCs  thinking  they  can  burrow  through  the  guano  around the doors find an impenetrable stone structure un-derneath. If any are able to view the top of the mound (via climbing or some other means) they see that it is pocked with small holes. These holes lead to dormant fangsights (area 5) that do not respond until PCs exit with Yarafad’s Box.

Area  4a  –  Yarafad’s  Box:  The  doors  open  into  a  chamber  shaped  like  a  five-pointed  star.  A  pentagram  of  inlaid  silver adorns the obsidian floor with a pentagon stepped platform in the center. Atop the platform is an ivory white cylindrical container roughly 3 feet in height and diameter. Its outside is caged with a fine network of copper pipes radiating like spokes from a central open reservoir, which receives drips of blood from a pipe descend-ing from the ceiling. This pipe follows the ceiling to a wall, at-taching to a series of 16 metallic closets surrounding the room; these closets are also interconnected by pipes. The dripping slows while raspy labored breathing echoes in the chamber.When  the  PCs  enter  the  mound,  Elzemon  leaves  to  call  back the Servitors that he sent for more lawful blood (area 7),  and  does  not  appear  again  until  area  6.  PCs  searching  for the breathing find it emanating from one of the closets (all are unlocked):The closet contains a man with small pipes emerging from his wrists, thighs, and neck. His exsanguinated body slumps in its chained restraints. With his dying breath, he raises his head to look at you and exclaims, “Bleed for the Box, or else it will escape!”  PCs opening other closets find bound exsanguinated corps-es  with  pipes  intact,  although  three  appear  to  have  been  killed  recently  via  claw  wounds  (Elzemon  ensuring  that  PCs will need their own blood to feed Yarafad’s Box). The man’s clothes indicate he is a monk of Justicia (0-level). He dies  before  PCs  can  heal  him.  Merciful  judges  may  allow  the  party  to  revive  him  if  no  lawful  PCs  exist  to  feed  the  Box. With his death, Yarafad’s Box begins to make gurgling noises, and the party has 5 rounds to decide who will con-tribute  lawful  blood.  The  day’s  5  hp  may  be  given  all  at  once or in increments. If at least 1 hp of lawful blood hasn’t been put in the reservoir in 5 rounds’ time, the shadow im-prisoned within escapes and attacks. The Box weighs only 30 lbs, but its size makes it very cumbersome for a single PC to carry.Shadow: Init +3 (able to always surprise); Atk debilitating touch +8 melee (1 Str); AC 17; HD 6d8; hp 27; MV fly 40’; Act 1d20; SP stalk prey to guarantee surprise, incorporeal, immune to non-magical weapons, un-dead traits; SV Fort +5, Ref +10, Will +8; AL N.

Area  4b  –  Nekros’  Secret  Study:  This small, somewhat Spartan chamber holds a bed, a desk, and two sets of shelves containing books, scrolls, mortar and pestle, alembic, retort, and miscellaneous alchemical substances. On top of the desk, amidst various pieces of parchment, rests a handled bucket, made com-pletely of glass.Clever PCs noting that no wizard’s accoutrements are pres-ent in area 4a may discover a trapped secret door leading 
Page 5to this chamber (DC 15 find traps check to discover, DC 15 disable traps check to disable or take 1d10+4 fire damage).  Searching one set of shelves reveals a scroll with a 1st-level wizard  spell,  written  in  the  troglodyte  language.  The  oth-er  set  of  shelves  contains  three  vials  of  “processed”  tirge-frab  vomit,  one  two-foot  long  cylinder  of  solid  lead  (may  be used as club), a large canine tooth (from a hell-hound), and a box of spores from a giant mushroom. Note that the tooth and spores are useful as potion ingredients for high level  wizards.  The  processed  tirgefrab  vomit  is  poisonous  if imbibed: DC 14 Fort save, 1d6 temporary Strength dam-age  on  successful  saves;  failure  results  in  1d4  permanent  Strength damage. Strength permanently reduced to zero causes death.The desk drawer contains two key pieces of parchment. The first details the mechanics of Yarafad’s Box, specifically the need of 5 hp of lawful blood per day, as well as details of the blood-draining closet network that Nekros constructed. The  second  is  a  note  suggesting  advice  on  binding  a  qua-sit  named  “Elzemon”  to  service.  It  reveals  that  the  quasit  becomes visible if exposed to lead (taking 1d4 damage per round of exposure), and also notes that it is immune to Will effects  unless  its  true  name  is  spoken.  While  the  lead  cyl-inder is an effective club for exposing Elzemon, ingenious PCs could use the glass bucket to draw some of the lake’s acid; judiciously applying the acid to the cylinder weakens it  such  that  a  course  lead  powder  can  be  made.  The  lead  club yields enough powder for 5 rounds worth of invisibil-ity-dispelling quasit-harming missile attacks.

Area  5  –  Fangsights  Attack:  As you cross the bridge back toward the spiral stairway, a high-pitched screeching erupts from the sanctum. Swarming from the guano mound’s peak, a cloud of pink, fleshy grapefruit-sized globs begins to race in your direc-tion. Each orb flies with bat wings and is haphazardly covered with multiple types of eyes and fanged mouths, as if constructed randomly from various creatures. The fangsights attack PCs as they attempt to cross the first narrow portion of the bridge. If the swarm successfully bites a  PC,  then  it  coalesces  around  the  victim  trying  to  knock  him  prone.  If  a  PC  is  on  a  narrow  portion  of  the  bridge  when knocked prone, then he falls into the lake. Note that leeches  are  still  present  if  not  previously  dealt  with.  The  swarm is especially vulnerable to the lake’s acid. The glass bucket from area 4b is useful here, as one bucket-full of lake “water” causes 2d10 damage to the swarm on a successful splash attack. PCs may also opt to lead the swarm into area 4a to avoid being knocked off of the bridge. With planning, the party can even trap the fangsights in area 4a by leading them in, then carefully withdrawing and closing the door. Finally, the fangsight swarm is a “perversion of nature” and is considered “unholy” (i.e., turn-able) to neutral clerics.Fangsight  Swarm:  Init  +5;  Atk  swarming  bite  +3  melee  (1d6 + coalesce); AC 14; HD 5d8; hp 22; MV fly 40’; Act 1d20; SP bite all targets within 20’ x 20’ space, coalesce (DC 12 Ref save or be knocked prone); SV Fort +0, Ref +5, Will -1; AL C.

rEgardIng thE StaIrSThe spiral stairway is intended to be a tension-inducing trek through darkness with no apparent end in sight. The diameter is so large that neither mundane light sources nor PC infravision can see across the spiral to the other side. In playtests, some players grew anxious during the descent, and attempted to deduce the stairway’s length and how far they had descended. Here are some details that may help if players attempt such feats.The map notes that the diameter is 550 feet, while one spiral descends 150 feet. Since the circumference of a circle is roughly 3.14 times the diameter, the distance around one spiral is 1,730 feet, or 0.328 miles. The slope or grade of the stairway is given by 180/3.14*arctan(150/1730), which is roughly 5 degrees. This means that each individual stair is about 12 times as long as it is tall. Since the chamber is 15,000 feet deep with each spiral descending 150 feet, there must be 100 spirals from top to bottom. Thus the total length of the stairway is 32.8 miles, 100 times the length of one spiral. One can also think of the stairway as a right triangle with height 550 feet and hypotenuse 32.8 miles, which is “rolled” into a barber-pole of diameter 550 feet and height 15,000 feet.DCC assumes 24 miles per day on flat land (DCC p. 308), so if the stairway were flat then the travel time would be roughly 1.4 days (32.8/24). However, people move more slowly on stairs, and while a 5 degree grade isn’t that steep, it will slow PCs down by roughly 10% descending and 15% ascending. Allowing margin for fights, distractions, care-ful exploration, rests, etc., we round the travel time to 2 days for both descent and ascent. Playtests have proven that some players will want to calculate the 32.8 miles associated with their two-day journey. For a medieval society, geometry and trigonometry are fair game, but force players to justify how PCs have such specialized knowledge. Prohibit players from using calculators, cell-phones, etc., to deduce the aforementioned di-mensions. One playtester realized that the 5 degree grade was very shallow, and thought that he had enough rope to be lowered down to the next spiral; with 50 feet of rope and a torch, he couldn’t even see the next spiral 150 feet below. Post-game, another playtester noted that 15,000 feet was roughly twice as deep as the deepest cave on Earth. How could a 15,000 foot shaft exist? Nekros employed a large earth elemental (DCC p. 412); earth elementals dig at the same rate an unarmored human walks, so a 15,000 foot shaft is an hour’s worth of digging.

Area  6  –  Upward  Spiral:  The now-familiar roughly hewn stairs ascend from the mystic bridge, spiraling along the cham-ber’s curved wall. As the last of you begins the climb, the floor’s dim pallid glow fades to the abyssal darkness that will be your companion for the next two days.PCs must make the two-day journey up the staircase feed-ing living lawful blood to Yarafad’s Box. After the first day of  climbing,  any  remaining  tirgefrabs  resume  hit-and-run  tactics  once  per  day  while  the  party  remains  on  the  stair-way. Elzemon returns whenever the PCs attempt an eight-hour  rest  to  continue  his  sleep-depriving  antics  (see  area  2), harassing the party twice during their sleep. If the party has kept the Box closed, Elzemon invisibly tries to convince PCs  to  open  it,  e.g.,  claiming  to  be  a  messenger  from  the  party  cleric’s  deity.  He  only  pesters  the  party  while  they  camp, otherwise spending his time outside with his servi-tors (area 7).

Area 7 – The Hunting Party Returns:Boulder Cliff looms above and behind as you exit Nekros’ Sanctum. Approaching along  the  river  bank  are  eight  miniature  rotund  humanoids, marching two wide and four deep, carrying a motionless human man on their shoulders. At first glance, the creatures seem too small to be a threat, but their sharp claws, teeth, barbs, and spines dispel such a notion. As a disembodied voice shouts, “Gorge on their flesh!” They drop the human body and rush hungrily to you.Elzemon orders his hunting party of minor servitors to at-tack, but does not take part in the combat. He fulfills his binding  to  Nekros  by  having  the  servitors  try  to  kill  the  PCs, yet hopes that the party succeeds so that his binding is broken. Minor servitors are lesser forms of servitors (DCC RPG rulebook, page 425). These were ordered to assist El-zemon in guarding and feeding Yarafad’s Box, and it was they  who  kidnapped  all  the  victims  found  in  area  4a.  Al-though these fearsome creatures fight to the death without morale  checks,  they  can  be  turned  by  lawful  and  neutral  clerics. They attempt to paralyze all party members first, after which they gnaw on the helpless PCs who witness a TPK  little  bite  by  little  bite.  Any  lawful  PCs  are  momen-tarily spared, only to give their lives to Yarafad’s Box back in area 4a.Minor Servitors (8): Init +3; Atk claw +3 melee (paralysis) or bite +1 melee (1d3); AC 15; HD 1d8+2; hp 6; MV 40’; Act 1d20; SP paralysis (DC 13 Fort save, or paralyzed for 1d3 days), cantrip (spell check +4); SV Fort +1, Ref +3, Will +4; AL C.If the party is successful at killing or turning the servitors, then read the following to the players:The same disembodied voice that commanded the attack says, “Well done. You have been not only entertaining but helpful. I think the cleric over there is fair payment. Perhaps we’ll meet again. Farewell.” The man that was dropped by the demonic crea-tures lies motionless near the river bank staring at you, and you get the feeling that he is still alive. With  the  party’s  removal  of  Yarafad’s  Box,  Elzemon  is  no  longer bound to Nekros, and he happily flees to find more opportunities for mischief. The man the servitors dropped is Valbris, an Acolyte of Choranus (level 1 lawful cleric, hp 5). Four hours after rescue, his paralysis wears off. Valbris urges the party to deliver the Box to his temple. He offers one suit each of banded mail and half-plate armor (both hu-man sized) from the temple armory, 50 gp per PC, as well as  healing  for  the  party  while  they  travel  with  him  to  the  temple. He does not heal them if they don’t help him.The  PCs  must  decide  whether  to  betray  Rhalabhast  and  give  the  Box  to  the  temple  of  Choranus,  or  forgo  Valbris’  offer  and  stay  true  to  Rhalabhast’s  deal.  Either  decision  results  in  a  three-day  journey  during  which  the  Box  must  continue to be fed. The judge must ensure that the party re-alizes their choice has consequences for their future. Rhal-abhast definitely seeks vengeance if betrayed, and Chora-nus does not forget being denied Yarafad’s Box.The judge should consider the alignments, deities, and pa-trons of the PCs, and bestow bonuses and penalties to Luck appropriately. For example, one may impose penalties on lawful  characters  who  betray  Rhalabhast,  unless  they  fol-low Choranus specifically. Chaotic characters should lose Luck if they yield the Box to Valbris. Neutral PCs have no moral obligation to help either side, although Luck bonuses should  go  to  all  PCs  who  stay  true  to  Rhalabhast,  except  for  followers  of  Choranus;  they  should  receive  bonuses  for siding with Valbris. Unless the party is morally united, a  lively  debate  among  the  PCs  is  probable.  Regardless  of  their decision, the PCs have a powerful enemy that affects their future fates.