# The Villain in the Hill

The parson keeps a history in the church registry, but it was weeks before we
recognized the way things happen now and the strangeness of it so the exact date
isn't certain. No freshly-fallen, glowing sphere of space-metal was discovered.
The average number of two-headed cows were born that year. The dead didn't walk.
It wasn't a full moon, or a new moon, it was just a moon. It, the syndrome or
laws of it, might not have had a cause to start any more that the way things
were before it had a cause to be that way.

There's a _**Villain**_, and he lives in the _**Hill**_, or under it. That never
changes. The Villain waxes, wanes and changes, but is always the Villain. We
hate the Villain here. The Villain wasn't always in the Hill, but always will
be.

An _**Adventurer**_ arrives in the village every day, at noon, even on Sundays.
The parson writes down as much as he can about the Adventurer. Many tell of
outlandish origins. Some of them are foolish, some are rich, some are both. Some
bring guards or families. We thrive on the wealth of these travelers, which the
Villain must notice. Few of us farm. New roads are being built. The Duke is
planning to move his seat here. The Villain has spies everywhere. There is no
record of any Adventurer, anywhere, before they arrive.

A _**Hero**_ sets out for the Hill every day before dawn, without fanfare.
Twice, when the Villain was exceptionally terrible, a group of Heroes set out
together. The Hero is usually an Adventurer, but not always. I had an aunt who
was a Hero, and came back alive. She's probably a witch. Each Hero has a
_**Goal**_ in mind as they set out. The truest Goal of a Hero is to defeat the
Villain. To Kill or Replace the Villain. Most Heroes die.

## Play

Choose an introductory adventure for a game system with which you are familiar.
Add the Villain: a character of the same threat level as the most powerful foe
within the chosen adventure. The Villain should be physically like the Heroes
they will face; this is humanoid in most cases. Take the most valuable treasure
present in the adventure and give it to the Villain; add a dwelling beyond the
dungeon's 'end' for the Villain. Ignore the usual adventure hooks. Alter the
adventure so that the 'entrance' is through a cleft in a hill, a few hours' hike
from a town.

### The Villain

- The Villain gains (days surviving as Villain \* 1) points of Power each dawn.
- The Villain has a list of priorities on which to spend Power; this list does
  not change unless the Villain is Killed or Replaced.

#### Villain Power Costs

All costs are doubled if applied outside of the Hill.

Heal self completely: 1 Resurrect self: (power level \* 2) Heal other creature
completely: 2 Arm trap: 1 Replace dead creature: (power level) Recruit new
creature: (power level / 2) Add

Brave Joseph, Day Zero Pythagoras08/04/2020 Joseph tried to keep a low profile
though most of the mountain, though he couldn't ignore sounds of distress. His
attempt to rescue a tortured dwarf came too late, though he did avenge the poor
creature by slaying the goblins causing him pain. He found what might be one of
the Warlock's keys guarded by a tiny, now dead, snake. The guards' unguarded
armory gave up a shield to him. He never quite recovered from a vicious battle
with a Troll at the bottom of a pit, though he dispatched that creature as well.
He was eventually forced to flee a combat by jumping into an underground stream,
and was trapped on one bank with limited options to cross it. All failed until a
second mad dash across a crumbling bridge. He opened a door, looking for a safe
place to rest, and was killed by a blow to the back of the head.
Pythagoras08/05/2020 Pearl, Day One Pearl started the adventure with max Skill
and Luck thanks to good rolls, and a Potion of Stamina.

Pearl also tried to keep a low profile, avoiding any doors that might hold
danger. She also avoid any doors which seemed to hold people in distress,
however. She generally followed Brave Joseph's route, which was even safer since
he'd killed a few enemies, though he'd also taken the shield from the armory
room. She also made it to the ferryman, but lacked gold coins to pay him. She
took the raft herself and punted across.

She explored the other side a bit before entering the room in which Brave Joseph
met his end, also taking a blow to the head. She woke up in a room with four
rotten zombies and one fresh zombie: Joseph! Thanks to her skill with the sword,
she put all of them to rest. She declined to take his shield, but did take all
of his remaining provisions and his Potion of Luck.

Further explorations had her gamble with some Dwarfs and get lost in the Maze of
Zagor, where she was knocked unconscious several times by sleeping gas traps. At
the end of Day One, she remains there, alive. Pythagoras08/05/2020 Young
Skipward, Day Two Pythagoras08/05/2020 Skipward, not blessed with great skill or
great luck, took an aggressive approach, smashing down doors and surprise
attacking the goblin sentry near the entrance, then pulling the alarm rope
himself for good measure. He ran to the Orc barracks and slaughtered the two
drunken Orcs inside as the other sleeping guard ran in behind him to be cut down
himself. He met and freed a prisoner of the Warlock who had been driven nearly
mad a sort of pet to the Orcs, then found two smaller Goblins torturing and
killing a third Goblin in a nearby room and killed them as well. A drink of
Potion of Stamina healed his wounds, and he found an Iron Cyclops with a great
jewel for an eye. Attempting to remove it brought the creature to life, angrily,
and Skipward just barely managed to kill it and pluck the hugely valuable Eye
from it. He also took the strange key hw found within the creature's breast.

Deciding that this was wealth enough for one lifetime, he decided to make his
way home and luckily escaped the Mountain without further incident!

Two days later, he was the greatest celebrity the village of Woodrow had ever
seen. Hugely rich, and the first to escape Firetop Mountain in ages, those who
aimed to follow in his footsteps hung on his every word. A disgraced nobleman
traded his fine, jeweled sword for the stolen key -- the nobleman whose
seven-league boots will place him at the Mountain entrance on Day Five!
Pythagoras01/05/2021 AXIOM: WANDERING IS DULL If you're stuck wandering hallway
after hallway, Test Your Luck to find yourself in a new section of hallway in
which you haven't been yet. If you succeed, you somehow make it there without
any additional complications. If you fail, you run into a wandering creature
that you must defeat in order to continue AND you remain stuck in the same
section of the mountain as you already were. AXIOM: ACTIVE SEARCH IS POSSIBLE
Instead of directly prompting the player to search for traps or secret doors as
written, players can choose to do so at any time. They may choose to Test Your
Luck while doing so -- a success means they find any secret near them and don't
attract a random encounter or trigger a trap while doing so. If they don't
choose to test Luck, they must roll under SKILL on 2d6. Should they fail, a
random encounter arrives in addition to any other result. This may mean two or
more random creatures attack together. They each get an attack every turn unless
local conditions make that impossible. AXIOM: TIME PASSES WHILE YOU LOAF Should
a random encounter happen to a character who is alive but unconscious, the
creature does 3 STAMINA points of damage each round. Starting on the second
round, the adventurer rolls 2d6, and if the result is less than SKILL they wake
up and may fight normally in succeeding rounds. If the roll is also less than
LUCK, they take only 1 STAMINA point of damage that round instead of 3.
Pythagoras01/05/2021 AXIOM: CHARACTERS FIT ARCHETYPES Commoners are basically
0-level characters. They are the “regular folk”. They start with a backpack, a
lantern, a “weapon”, and some random odds and ends they thought might help. They
adventure in order to become Rich or Powerful.

Rich characters are like Commoners, but rich. These are 0-level characters who
start with much better equipment (like the Potions of X that are standard in the
book, and good armor, and magical things like seven league boots or weapons so
fancy that they make great bribes that might work on the warlock’s thralls) They
adventure on hopes of becoming Powerful.

Powerful characters have a class level, like most traditional RPG characters.
(2nd level Warrior, 3rd level Wizard, etc.) To become Powerful, a character must
accomplish at least one feat worth a class level: defeat ten creatures, learn a
spell and gain a way to learn more, sneak past or escape ten foes, steal several
valuable items, and so on. They adventure to gain more power.
Pythagoras01/05/2021 AXIOM: TO WIN IS DESIRABLE Each adventure has several
possible win states. Any adventure may be won by any character should they
defeat or replace the current Warlock of Firetop Mountain.

Commoners win by becoming Rich or Powerful. Rich characters win by becoming
Powerful. Powerful characters win by achieving tasks specific to their class and
level.

To become Rich, a Commoner must escape the Mountain with items valued at more
than 20 + (streak of successful adventures) gold pieces.

To become Powerful, a character must escape the Mountain after accomplishing one
of the following feats, or others of similar complexity.

- defeat 10 creatures in combat
- defeat 10 creatures with trickery
- steal treasure valued at 50 gold pieces
- learn and successfully cast two spells
- learn and successfully cast one spell and gain a potential patron to learn
  more
- undergo a test of faith and succeed dramatically
- verify correctness of 5 rumors and devise 5 more Pythagoras01/05/2021 AXIOM:
  THE WARLOCK MAY BE DEFEATED, BUT THE WARLOCK IS ETERNAL The Warlock may be
  defeated or replaced, but there is always a Warlock of Firetop Mountain.

A defeated Warlock must expend WARLOCK POINTS (WP) to return to life as quickly
as possible.

WP are spent by the Warlock to heal, restock the Mountain, expand the Mountain,
spread rumors, etc. Each day that the Warlock remains in power, the Warlock
gains that number of WP. (day one, +1WP. day three, +3WP.)

A character who replaces the Warlock becomes the new Warlock of Firetop Mountain
and leaves play. The player may:

- define a goal of the new Warlock and determine a new order of priorities of
  them
- define a new room of the Mountain
- seed the world with additional rumors
- start a new character of the same level as the Warlock

A new Warlock begins play with 0 WP. AXIOM: LUCK RUNS OUT Testing Your Luck
always costs 1 point of Luck.
